CHAPTER I

PRELUDE – LIGHT CREATION

1,000 years after the Great Fire…
T
 wo beings stood upon the perpetually burning star called Sun, untouched by its liquid flame. Both held bodies garbed in robes of light, yet only the one called Torin was complete.
They stood within a building of solidified light-beams, surrounded by a luxurious courtyard patterned with worlds as garden flowers. They were close to the mortal realm. Torin shivered. Gwendolyn stood encased in crystal, without which the Sun would incinerate her. It was this crystal that elevated her physical body to that of a higher being. A crystal formed by a Creation Stone, to protect its bearer. She held this Creation Stone in her heart. The Second Stone. The Creation Stone of Voids. Of wind and of realms, including those of dreams and mortals.
In this place, Gwendolyn could see sinuous vibrations coming together as solids, much like those in the physical realm. She was from there herself. Yet Torin still saw things differently, comprehending the phases of things throughout all time, all at once. He saw the fruit-bearing tree in its current state, as well as the seed it once was, and the bench it would become. In this way, time was just another piece of matter to him, a ribbon rolled out to be viewed.
Torin stood beside his daughter as they watched from the Sun. Man and woman. Torin and Gwendolyn. Creator and creation. They were meeting upon her request for guidance with the coming era, for she was troubled, having always been one to question.
Few had ever possessed a Creation Stone like the one she now harbored in her chest. Only one being had ever held all seven Stones at one time. Torin. The celestialized man who had created Proelum. He had used each Stone in their destined order, a thousand years at a time, to shape pure energy into organized matter. He had then placed the seven Creation Stones within the infant planet, hiding them from dark forces that would wield them for destruction.
Afterward, he had set the planet on its own path towards celestialization. A path that, once initiated, would limit the degree in which he could interact with it. For once the path was started, it was up to the inhabitants to choose its course.
To interfere greatly would mean disintegrating the planet, its spirits, and the promises that made it, into oblivion. It would mean not just death, but erasure. The erasing of ever having existed at all.
Interfering would also defeat the whole purpose of mortal life. It was those in that realm who needed to grow. Who needed to learn. Who needed to choose, without knowing the result. To believe, and then take action.
So there they stood, watching Proelum drift into the final act of its trajectory. Into the segment where most worlds failed, for it was by far the most treacherous. Here. Soon. The war to possess the Creation Stones would inflame one final time. The war that raged eternally between light and dark. The war of which so many stories spoke of. The war for hearts, minds, planets, and realms. The Greater War.
“I don’t understand,” Gwen said softly. “Why should we release him again if we know he could annihilate everything?”
Her voice was prominent amidst the choir of stars.
“He will almost surely annihilate everything,” said Torin, his voice calm. “But it is the way. The way it must be. Balance. There must be risk if there is to be growth.”
His voice planted peace in the heart like a seed in rich soil. He was humble and caring, careful with every word, with every pause.
Such utterances could be written down, studied for centuries, and then still unveil new meaning. He was an endless spring. He knew the way of things.
“Yes, but… We have come so far.” She trailed off.
“Wielder of the Wind Stone. Speaker of worlds. Leader, or Lehrer, of spirits."
He paused, beaming at her.
“Angel of light. Litiguh. Gwendolyn.”
He spoke each name with complete understanding.
He smiled at her. “Please. Trust me.”
She half-smiled back, though it hurt her hearts. Her human heart, as well as the heart of worlds inside her.
“He was so close last time,” Gwen said, her voice somber. “What’s to stop him from going further? He's had another thousand years to plan his final attempt. He's cunning. He's dangerous.”
“He is all of these things,” Torin said.
“He could erase everything,” said Gwen.
“Even the planets before this one. Even Earth,” said Torin. His voice became a nostalgic mist as he spoke of his home world.
“He's your brother,” she said.
“I know.”
“Then why?” she asked.
He held her cheeks gently in his hands.
"Leave the ‘whys’ to me, child. That is trust. If you trust me first, the answers will come after. You know this to be true. Just look in your heart, and the fusion within."
She nodded.
“But Torin. I’m terrified. I cannot see the end.” Her voice shook.
“So it must be. Do you understand?” Soothing waves of emotion rolled from him like a restful rainstorm, bringing tears to her eyes. She nodded with a trembling smile hidden behind her lips. She could feel imbalance within herself.
“Are you sure you’re not God?” she asked, laughing.
Torin chuckled. “Who me? No child, I am no being called God. Though, I see why you perceive me as a god. After all, isn’t it a matter of perspective? It seems that, to a firefly, the eagle is a god. Or to the wolf pup, the full-grown mother. Or to the minnows, the massive whale.
“It seems then the term ‘god’ refers to a being with overwhelming power in comparison to where you currently exist. In this reference, yes. To you, I am a god.
“Yet you can grow to reach this higher level, this higher glory, like I once did. You understand so much, yet so little. You can seek more. You are the seed who can become the tree. The pebble, the mountain.
“I am even a god, in that I create. So too can you be a form of god. But this holy reference to a singular being called God? I am not him."
He paused, rubbing his hands together as if dusting them off.
“He is real, though he does not exist. I would say no more.” He spoke this last word with a comforting wink.
Her skin grew just a bit warmer then. She breathed in deep to cool her soul. She then felt a pulse in her chest. Her Stone was fused with her heart, though she could separate from it at any time, retaining only some of its gifted powers. Occasionally, she needed a break from it.
To wield a Creation Stone meant gaining tremendous power and accountability. Many dreamt of holding the Stones, while even more sought after them. But truly? It was a burden.
It was both incredible and terrifying. Much suffering was required to reach the level capable of even looking upon one of the Seven Stones. Possessing one was another matter entirely. In harboring it, she had outlived her husband and children.
She'd lost many friends in the battles that ensued. She had then ascended through the stages of light just like every human could, overcoming her trials and sorrow. And now she sustained it, falling and growing further in love with her Stone for the essence contained within it. After all, someone had to use it, to keep it from the dark ones.
She also knew the secret to wielding the Stone for the purposes of light. The secret was love. Wasn’t it always? The secret to every novel she had ever read as a mortal? Family first. Self-sacrifice. Selfless giving. Love. She remembered wishing as a child that novels would come out and share the secret from the start. She promised to do just this if she ever wrote one.
The secret is love. But what is love? What does this abstract, blanket concept mean? She had learned to find her own meaning. For her, it meant ‘understanding’. Love meant taking the time and energy to truly understand something or someone else. When this happened, a plethora of new bonds was forged, creating the feeling humans called love.
So this is my secret, should anyone ask. Yet revealing this spoils nothing. For there are many things and people and places, to learn from and understand and love. So much so that the ending is all but revealed even still. Knowing this secret, that love conquers all, reveals little.
The thrill, then, is learning something new, and learning to understand it, and therefore love it. Forming new bonds. Adding more color to an already prismatic life. Collecting these treasured spheres of memory for eternity. Knowing this, there are still no guarantees. There are still tragedies. The worst kinds. Love lost. Yet there is hope for a happy ending.
And that was why she was here. For she loved her new island and its people. She did not want to lose them, though the spirit of things told her she would.
“So it begins, and so it ends,” she said, almost in whisper.
“Gwen of the Wind. You know that nothing truly ends.” She felt his warmth, for it was even brighter than the Sun.
“Yes… but I also know there are two meanings buried there,” she said, rolling her eyes.
He laughed, deep and rumbling. “This is true.”
There was a moment of silence then. She watched the massive orb that was her planet. The third rock from the Sun. The inhabited planet of Proelum. They needed her, and she needed them. She would miss them.
Torin finally spoke.
“Gather the others. All seven. The time is approaching.”
“When will you release him?” she asked. Yet she knew the answer.
He looked down upon the world of Proelum.
“Tomorrow.”
A single tear rolled down his cheek, fell to the floor, and froze.






CHAPTER II

prelude – SEVEN STONES

108 years later…
W
ind whipped through Gwendolyn’s hair as she rushed over the surface of the ocean. She had no thought to fear the leviathans below her, for something far more terrible approached from behind.
Before this moment, she had lived peacefully on her new island, almost remembering what it was like to be normal. To be human. As the wielder of a Creation Stone, she had become the guardian of the island it belonged to. One of the seven hidden islands created after the world was burned. She had lived there for more than a thousand years, watching and defending it. She had even found love again, though it never would’ve replaced her family from before.
But now, a century after releasing the Grand Wielder of Darkness himself, it was finally time. The Morningstar was free from his bounds. It was time for peace to fail and brutality to reign. Time for the seven protected Horizon Islands to be found. Time for the final veil to fall.
She had been preparing for this, watching the world outside her island dwindle in temptation. Puppeteered and advanced by darkness, the outsiders had finally found them. Though she had wished for more time, no amount of preparation would have been enough. Her soul trembled with righteous sorrow and rage.
The outsiders never would've found them if dark hearts had remained absent from her island. But alas, darkness had found its way in. Soon after, their location had been revealed. Her island had fought valiantly throughout the century of growing darkness. They had resisted the urges placed in their hearts.
Yet over the last year, things had plummeted for the worst. She was the only one left. The only one from her Horizon Island. And now, she was being chased by creatures with murderous intent.
There's a good chance I will fall this day, she thought. Even so, I won't go easy. She had learned to fight as a mortal, then further progressed her strength over the last few centuries. Now, amplified by the Creation Stone in her heart, she wielded the power to shape worlds.
But their numbers were too great. She had seen ten of them already, and could feel hordes of them approaching. The best she could do was delay them. Lead them away from the other islands, she thought.
She had spoken with Torin three nights before. The other islands were still safe. Hers would be the first to fall. It was bittersweet revelation. Inevitable as it was, it had to happen eventually. Going this way, she would  see her family again soon, whilst leading the darkness away from the Stone of Matter. She could easily escape now, if she wished it. Yet that would leave her alone and guilty, while Cephas Island would fall to the Morningstar. She could not allow this.
She would carry out her duty. She would sacrifice her power, taking up the gauntlet of her next role in the Greater War. It will all come in time, she thought. First and forever, I must be present in this moment. She breathed in deep, then relaxed amidst the eye of the gathering storm.
A wall of water arose and solidified before her. She slowed and veered to the left. But the wall extended, cutting her off. She prepared herself for impact, slamming into the ice. The impact would have crushed the spine of a normal human in an instant. Yet her crystalized body was unscathed. After all, she wielded the full power of voids.
She created a void around herself, causing the ever-present forces of atmosphere to launch her skyward. Her feet were a blur as she bounded up the vertical water-wall. She looked back and caught the eyes of two dark wielders.
She opened a void behind one assailant, destroying his momentum and breaking his neck as he was ripped backward. She opened another void where the second one was, but he moved quickly and far away, while also filling in her void. So, he also has understanding of voids, she thought. As flattering as that may be to my Stone, it makes little difference. He may understand, but he does not have the Stone itself. He lacks the core, the crux of it, the emanating essence. The fullness of it is mine alone.
She jumped, creating two more voids around herself. She held her hardened body firm as she was rocketed towards her second pursuer. She found the desired shock in his eyes. Then she created a small, discreet void at his front. He was pulled forward and into her path. Her fist collided with his jaw as she shielded her bones with voids like armor, providing just enough protection to prevent injury. His head separated from his shoulders, then exploded.
Two more dark ones appeared from the waters, arising on pillars. They must have created the water-walls, she thought. They must have understanding of water and its phases. She killed them both with one void, spawning it in between them to crack their skulls together. As they faded away, their walls collapsed and crashed into massive ocean waves.
She caught herself with void pairs and continued forward. Yet now there were five dark ones surrounding her. She slayed another and another. Four more took their places, keeping the momentum of their relentless assault. They had tracked her down, anticipating her escape. Which was exactly what she wanted. Poor fools, she thought, grinning.
Many would die by her hand, sent to their chosen eternities of torment. She was walking the fine line of duty and enjoyment. It felt good to use her powers without restraint. Even so, she held back her greatest technique, for to use it would mean breaking a promise to herself. The technique was dangerous. It was powerful and effective, yes. But more than this, it was addicting. It had remnants of the old world. It held within it the ancient ways of temptation.
Though these ways will return as Morningstar grows stronger, I must resist it as long as I can. The old desire rose up within her, speaking kind words of weighted reason. This might be my end anyway, she thought. Why shouldn’t I use it?
Far ahead, she spun an atmospheric torrent. She created a void, then displaced this pressure to another point nearby. She held this differential, creating a vortex as the atmosphere sought equilibrium. She did this with two pieces of her segmented mind, initiating the first phase of her forbidden technique.
She had learned to liken this to playing musical instruments. When she was a mortal child, it had been difficult to play two parts of the same song at once, using two hands and two parts of the mind. Yet she had learned and practiced it relentlessly. Now, it was like she played ten different songs, each with a different hand of her mind, all with perfect tone and timing. Unique. Unbridled. Unified.
And as she picked up speed, her mind split into ten parts, weaving amidst one another with coursing elation. Two parts built momentum in the vortex. Four parts followed the movements of the strongest dark ones on her tail. The remaining four parts each followed three lesser dark beings. Sixteen beings were following her now, and more were coming. So many… she thought. Morningstar is growing strong.
She fought a wave of despair, keeping it from clouding her mind. She segmented the feeling to an eleventh part of her mind, then snuffed it out. I am quickly approaching that which I swore never to do again. Every piece of mind is one step closer.
She continued to create voids at her front and back while a third one sustained the void armor encasing her crystalized body. This allowed her to move past velocities that would shatter mortal bones. Vibrations coursed within her sinews, yet her body held strong. At the same time, she saw the bodies of the lesser beings collapse, tumbling and then disintegrating into the storm.
She whirled within her element. She was the wind. She juked side to side, up and down, avoiding attacks from the lower beings. Some of the dark ones were only aiding in the movements of the other dark puppets. Each used their own strengths, their teamwork commendable despite their loathing for one another. For no dark being could truly care for another.
A lightning bolt struck her from behind, ripping at her cheek. It cut through her void and crystal, summoning blood from her veins. She cried out from instinct, then reinforced her protective void. A wielder of energies, too? I’m flattered.
She spotted the one who had struck her. Within his group, he was second strongest in his understanding. She could feel a stronger being hiding behind the others. Gwen searched as she twisted through the air, then found her. The woman was the one moving them and protecting them with her own understanding of voids. The master puppeteer. She would be the one rewarded for the killing of another Litiguh, should they succeed. So Gwen would first destroy this one’s puppets and toys. She would be incredible with this Stone, Gwen thought. Too bad she chose the wrong side. As well as the wrong Litiguh to mess with.
Gwen increased her speed and veered towards her atmospheric vortex. It was coming along as predicted, opening an eye in the atmosphere to summon the void of space. The dark ones had limited foresight. Gwen knew this from experience. It was all happening too fast for them to notice the vortex. Even the master puppeteer was too focused on her prey to sense it.
She took another hit, crying more loudly than warranted. A being of wrath shrieked with pleasure, using gravity to increase Gwen’s weight. Her time became warped, allowing the dark ones to close the distance. This will work just fine, she thought.
Closer they drew to the vortex. She split another part of her mind, causing a sharp pain in her skull. She was reaching her limits. Too close to breaking my promise. She used the new part of her mind to summon her own understanding of gravity, which was the realm of the Fourth Creation Stone. She counteracted the increased gravity on herself, allowing her to accelerate and lure the dark ones further.
Another being burst from the waters. It was a great leviathan ripped from the torrential depths of the abyss. Its natural plating was miraculous, covered with dead coral it had collected for years. And fused in its head, pierced into its flesh, was a wielder of animals. One who understands the Stone of Dominion. The worst of their kind.
The beast had countless fins, all which now spanned outwards and filled with air, puffing up like leather balloons and slowing its descent. But no, she thought. It’s not falling at all. She noticed three others focusing on the leviathan. They were holding the beast in place with their understanding of gravity, and possibly voids.
She knew that wild beasts were only wielded spirits, lacking the desire to do evil, while still used for such purposes. This included the leviathan before her, though its cold and cracking flesh seemed to ooze with malice. Its appearance is also a sign of its wielder. A physical manifestation of a corrupted soul. Renewed strength poured into her, driving her thoughts and momentum forward. I must free it.
Gwen threw a strong void ahead, casting herself sideways just in time to escape the jaws of the possessed leviathan. She placed another void, tossing herself towards the flesh of the beast. She landed on one of its outstretched fins which stood firm and bulbous under her weight.
Her feet were bare as they touched the leviathan’s skin, reminding her of crusted sponges. She held back disgust as she angled her body with voids and ran along its skin, passing fin after fin. She knew where best to strike the beast. She had slayed possessed leviathans before.
As she rushed forward, several other dark ones stood in her way. Another dark one who understood energy appeared behind her, then connected the spaces between raindrops with lightning. Simultaneously, several sharp rods hurtled towards her. She identified them as bits of iron ore, taken from stone by those who understood metals. They are trying to spear me with these metals, then connect the amplified electricity with raindrops, she thought. Impressive.
She did several things at once then, splitting her mind into four more parts. This limited her foresight further, while granting her greater insight in the current moment. It was something she had first learned to do as a human, to use when things became… challenging.
She placed small voids on the outsides of the iron rods, pulling them off their course. They whipped past her, the metal cold on her flesh. She swiped kicks at two of the rods, sending them back towards her pursuers. The spears pierced two separate beings, pinning them deep into the flesh of the leviathan.
At the same time, she used her own heightened understanding of phases to freeze the surrounding water droplets into solids. They pelted against her like hail, tinkling on her crystal form. They would have torn at the void-shield surrounding her, but she had already lowered that defense. Here is my chance. She focused her understanding of gravity upon herself, slowing her perception of time.
A lightning bolt connected with her crystalized form. Just then, within a time window of one-millionth of a second, she reshaped her void-shield around her body. This contained the electricity within the space directly around her, channeling it like a ferocious river.
Naturally, this was far more dangerous than any river by at least a thousand-fold. Pure energy was difficult to control. But with little to lose, she pulled it off with reckless confidence and imagination, causing it to course around her. She flashed a menacing smile as lightning bolts sparked between her teeth. The look of the two dark ones before her confirmed what she had hoped. She was truly a sight to behold.
She held the electricity around her, bouncing it between crystal and void, while taming it with her own understanding of energy. She took back three pieces of her mind, containing the electricity into a steady, pulsing blue. She felt a spike of confidence, a side-effect she knew often accompanied the power of energy. She dispelled it with humble thoughts as she drifted forward.
She felt a tug on her electric body. The dark wielder of energy sought to take back the electricity coursing around her. Gwen allowed him to pull, launching her body in his direction. She connected a sharp kick to his jugular while creating a void within his gasping mouth. His head imploded as she bounced from him.
She was close. She could feel the thrumming of its leviathan heart. And then, she saw it. The mark of where the darkling was controlling the leviathan. A dark being with understanding in the dominion of animals and plants. This was a rare skill amongst dark ones, for to understand dominion, while simultaneously using them for darkness, could only be done by a truly evil heart. She felt both impressed and disgusted as she hurtled towards him. She gathered bits of water around herself, further increasing her momentum voids.
She crashed against the head of the leviathan which held the infused dark being. She channeled the electricity within her void-shield into this one point, while condensing her gathered water into a liquid spike. She opened up the void around her to let the energy out, all while increasing the protective void around the rest of her crystal form. She pressed herself further into the creature by placing three more voids above her.
At the same time, several iron spears approached from behind. She seized them and directed them into the point of energy, amplifying the blast. Her head screamed as her mind split further to reach sixteen parts.
Sound collapsed at this same point, then expanded in a massive physical wave that ripped limbs from lesser dark beings. The leviathan rippled in its flesh from this singular point, as if a meteor had crashed into a lake. The dark one controlling the leviathan disintegrated within the organs of the beast. The monster let out a screech that pushed many of them further back, including Gwen. She allowed it to happen, arcing herself into the air.
She apologized to the leviathan in her heart, wishing it a gentle transition to the next realm. All of this had required her devoted concentration. It had caused her to lose sight of the next wave of attacks.
A spear of ore pierced her left calf, then shocked her nerves with amplified energy. She cried and bled, yet tightened her fists and pushed on. To the vortex. It is time. My promise reaches its end. Two more spears flew by, scratching her protective shell. She spotted those who had thrown the weapons, then tossed them back using voids. It looked as if she didn’t want them to follow her.
This would make sense to even the strongest dark one there, that puppeteer of voids. Her hold on them is incredible. Perhaps she is possessing the animal within them as well, wielding both voids and dominion, she thought. The puppeteer held a tangible craving for the kill. She followed Gwen with relentless fervor, a burning hunger to devour a creature of radiant light. With a flourish, she closed in on her prey.
Gwen smiled. It was her last smile in her mortal body. The master puppeteer saw the expression, and faltered.
It is time to break my promise. Her thought echoed in the sixteen pieces of her mind. She released the final barrier on her power. It would destroy her. She knew that. In the past, her Creation Stone allowed her to traverse between the spiritual and physical realms. She even walked between the realms of dreams. But using her full power now would weaken her bond with the Creation Stone.
She had done it once before. In her training, she had successfully separated her mind into three parts. This was years ago, when she had first learned the technique. Then she remembered the thought coming into her head, as if a future-self had whispered her the secret. Perhaps it was the future self she had just become. Regardless, the secret was the same. “Double the pieces of your mind, each becoming two more shards.”
The thought had come so swiftly that day, she had obeyed it without thinking. Her three pieces of mind had become six. Before she had felt the recoil, the shards had doubled themselves again, becoming twelve pieces total. All she could remember after that moment was a pinpoint of enlightenment, followed by floods of excruciating pain.
Days later, she was mentally sewn back together and healed by her master. When she regained consciousness, she looked into her master’s eyes, where she found equal parts of fear and anger. “You could have killed yourself. I don’t know how you did it, but you must never, ever do it again.” Having always trusted her master, she swore to herself that very same day never to split her mind by doubling the parts. And that’s why she was smiling.
She saw realization in the eyes of her pursuers. They had spotted her vortex. Many were already slowing and beginning to retreat. If she waited for them to get closer, it would be too late. Some would escape, eventually leading Morningstar to Cephas Island. She couldn't allow this to happen, no matter what. She knew her priorities. She had to protect Cephas Island, even if it meant giving up her own Creation Stone. Therefore, she would break her promise, to serve the higher cause.
And so, she removed the barrier on her mind. She did so with childlike excitement, thrilled to witness the results of an experiment centuries in the making. She reclaimed the sixteen pieces of her mind, visualizing them in a perfect circle around her. Then she prepared herself for the waves of mental flux.
It would be the same as when her mind split into two parts, in that it would increase her perception of the present, while limiting her foresight. Every separation of the mind increased the vividity of the present over the future. To the unpracticed, this was a curse. To the master, it was limitless power. Yet there was no known masters of the ‘infinite mind’, or ‘infinite now’. All who had attempted it, according to her master, had deteriorated and fallen to pieces after dissecting their own minds into dust.
Gwen focused her central mind, breathing in the salty mist. She spread out her hands, then created several massive voids, behind herself and all her followers, tossing puppets and puppeteers alike forward into her vortex. Her voids grew, draining her energy. And so, she made her move before it was too late.
The sixteen pieces of her mind doubled into thirty-two. The doubled pieces reinforced the voids surrounding the vortex, covering the entire sky with translucent, warping bubbles. The thirty-two pieces then doubled to become sixty-four, and then again to become one-hundred-twenty-eight. Triple digits, she thought, finding humor in her dire situation.
All pieces reinforced the voids, pushing the dark ones into the grasp of the vortex. The master puppeteer saw the inevitable outcome, yet started to swim backwards anyway, hoping it wasn't too late. The vortex gripped and shredded every piece of matter within its sphere, creating a black hole that stretched out into the space between planets. The disintegrated matter of bodies and air launched out from the atmosphere of Proelum. Gwen still held form, though her defenses were rapidly diminishing.
The puppeteer abused her hold on the dark ones, flinging them into the vortex as sacrifice as she lurched to the outside of the ring. Gwendolyn saw this and frowned. But it was not a frown of disappointment. It was one of sheer concentration and pure joy. She closed her eyes, feeling even the flowing marrow in her bones. Her awareness in this present space was unprecedented. It seemed there could be no further path. But of course there is, she thought. I have not yet reached ‘infinite mind’. She felt a spiritual hunger and thirst for more. Yet she resisted, remembering her prior reservations only seconds before. She had to limit herself before she erased her own existence completely.
She had one more move left. She reached out, touching all one-hundred-twenty-eight pieces of her mind. She held them, then split them in half like tiny atoms. More than two-hundred pieces of her mind became present. The voids exploded in spheres of flame, ripping all to the center of the vortex. The flames themselves licked along, falling into nothingness. The master puppeteer screeched the final cry of those forever miserable, then collapsed in on herself in the vortex.
This was the end for Gwendolyn. She tried to keep her mind from duplicating further, but it was already too late. She was far too weak to maintain the bond between her heart and the Creation Stone. She had saved the hidden location of Cephas Island. She had succeeded. But the cost was high. Morningstar and his puppets would acquire her Creation Stone, for her body would be left in ashes.
As she fell upwards, her perception slowed, as it often would in battle. Except this time, it was accompanied with sudden, comforting realizations. She hadn’t seen her family for a long, long time. She had done much for the side of light.
Even now, she had lured darkness away, vanquishing those who may have sensed the location of the nearest Horizon Island to her own. Cephas Island, the island of matter, would be the last island to stand, as it was foretold.
Though the war was far from over, she would get to see her family soon. She looked up to the Sun where she knew Torin was watching. She opened her heart.
Familiar drops of pain reached through her as the Creation Stone of Voids fell from her body. She reached inside of the Stone, tapping into its power. She said her goodbye to its spirit, then launched it thousands of miles away. There, she thought. No more tracks to this place.
Greater than the pain from the wound in her heart was the ache of losing a friend. Yet all will be restored in the end, came Torin’s comforting phrase. She hoped there would be a scar on her chest forever, as a memory of the Creation Stone she had come to know, as both the soul it was and the power it contained.
And then she disintegrated, fading from her mortal realm one final time as her physical body was ripped apart, never to return to this side of the veil.






CHAPTER III

BROTHERS

The next day...
A
mmon and Mikael leapt from the trees into the radiant, colored sands of Coral Beach. Here they walked the west edge of Cephas Island, preparing for their ocean swim. One brother blonde and the other brunette, they were both equal in height and joy as they heaved with melodic laughter.
They had concocted a dangerous adventure to celebrate Ammon’s eighth birthday. They were going to swim over the Corals to Guardian Isle. There were many coral reefs surrounding Cephas Island, though none were quite as vibrant or lively as the Corals. The swim was long, stretching just over three miles.
“Do you really think we can make it the whole way?” Mikael asked, still panting with excitement.
Ammon grinned, then shoved Mikael before taking off for the shore. “Suckerfish!” Mikael yelled, chasing after him. They then stopped one last time at the receding foam of the tide, ready to cross the threshold.
They had woken up before their parents, snuck out of the house at twilight, then ran through the jungle on a rush of disobedience. Yet now that they faced it in person, the reality of it sank in. They could smell the brine of the salty air. Could see the brilliant white of the Sector Guard Temple. Could sense the marine life teeming between them and their destination. Amidst all this, there was one other thing they felt. It was the feeling that something was about to change.
“You know what they’ll do to us if they catch us, right?” Mikael said, still grinning.
Ammon turned to his brother and pulled his hands up into claws. “Hang us by our toenails and leave us for the gulls!” he cawed, his voice raspy.
Mikael chuckled. “No, but really. It’s one of the few things we are forbidden to do. Only Guardians can step foot on their Isle. Isn’t it almost… disrespectful?”
Ammon gave him a weird look. “Since when do we care about stuff like that? If anything, they should reward us!” He pulled his arms up then, swimming through the air hand over hand. “Swimming amidst the Corals, gliding over the bottomless abyss, then slipping through the final reef, all in one go.”
Their hearts were thumping in their chests. “Okay,” Mikael choked. “Let’s do it.”
They stripped to their shorts and dove into the tide. The Sun was already warm, the water cool against their tiny bodies. One dark cloud watched them from afar.
They treaded water for short rests, suspending themselves above particularly interesting coral reefs and diving under to take closer looks. In his dreams, Ammon oft had the ability to breathe underwater. Holding his breath on the dives, even for a few moments, felt like diving into the depths of his own imagination.
Creatures beneath the waters seemed so surreal. As he watched them, thousands of colors and shapes wove into the ever-growing tapestry that was his young mind. Fish, stingray. Eels, urchins. Swimming here and there, brushing and drifting. It was a different world. And as the reef dropped off into the abyss, the two young boys swam on, unaware of the beasts that lurked beneath them.
After a long while, they clambered onto the beach of Guardian Isle. Their muscles felt drained, though their energy was still revving from nature and thrill. Mikael was only six-and-a-half years old, making the swim a truly incredible feat for someone his age. They had grown up swimming and running. In fact, their mother had always had a hard time getting them to stay in their beds at night. Their energy seemed bottomless.
They escaped the surf and walked up the beach, stretching their arms like birds flapping their wings. Suddenly, terror struck their hearts like hammer on anvil as they felt an exploding tremor. The ground shook. The Guardian Temple was ahead of them to the north. And to the west, fast approaching, were legendary leviathans of the sea.
Another loud impact rang, causing both boys to drop to their stomachs. As their vision and hearing shook, they crawled on all fours to the nearest brush off the beach. The grass was soft with palm trees providing shade, though nothing could shield them from what they were seeing.
The brothers realized the massive shapes were not mythical sea monsters, but wooden ships with billowing sails. There were twelve of them. Foreign ships approaching rapidly from the west, releasing a hellfire of metal upon the Isle. Ammon had heard stories of pirates before that day. It had all seemed like fantasy before then, though incomparable to leviathans.
He felt a flood of new questions pour into his mind, all concerning the outside world. The first of which was, Why would they hurt us?
After several more blasts, there was still no reaction from the Temple. The white structure was ghostly as sand and flowers fell around it. Dust and strange shouts drifted about, illuminated by the rays of the setting Sun. The brothers couldn’t believe the mysticism before them. It was like a scene from Ammon’s often-vivid dreams.
As the wreckage ensued and the ships drew ever closer, it became clear to the brothers that they were in real, mortal danger. The entire Isle was in shambles as projectiles continued striking the Temple. Everything seemed ablaze as sunrays lit the scene on fire. All was hazy and red like crimson clouds. All while the Temple stood still.
Finally, the Temple doors fell open. The brothers whimpered with relief. Two lines of Guardians appeared from the bright void, marching out with white robes and blank faces. There was a fluid motion to their step, lacking all impatience. Ammon looked at Mikael as a sideways smile grew on both their faces.
“I can’t believe this is happening,” Ammon said, turning back towards the violence. The two lines of Guardians were parallel to each other and to the beach, facing the approaching threat. Metals pummeled the sand around them, launching fragments into the air. The Guardians remained untouched.
A great dust storm stirred up, obscuring all shapes into dark-brown shadows. The Guardians stood still as the dust cloud thickened, while the blasts from impacts grew louder.
“What are they waiting for?” Mikael mumbled, tears of anticipation in his eyes. I don’t know, Ammon thought to himself. I don’t know…
The brothers had never seen such violence before. It felt like the end. The end of themselves, as well as their island. The end of their family and friends. They had trusted the Sector Guard with their lives. The highest calling on Cephas Island was to serve in their ranks. Given all this, they were still falling to outside forces.
A dark cloud overcame Ammon’s feelings, amplifying his inner fears. Doubts swarmed in every corner of his mind, consuming him. Hope for their island disappeared. He could almost hear the screams of his loved ones, particularly those from his brother whom he had brought there. His little brother Mikael trusted him to the ends of the world. He followed Ammon on any adventure. This kind of trust left no room for failure. And yet, Ammon had failed his little brother.
Then something happened. Something they would never, ever forget.
The sky shifted. Shots continued to rain down from the ships, their sails shifting like breathing lungs. The Guardians stood still. Then, every projectile slowed to a halt, floating amidst the suspended particles. The shifting sands converged on the metal scraps, coming together as one large mass.
The Guardians took a knee, all bowing their heads, as if to finally acknowledge the destruction before them. They gazed down, refusing to look upon the scene in which they now conquered. As the ships realized their shots were no longer striking the Isle, they ceased all firing. The atmosphere became soft, left with only the sounds of shifting sands and crashing waves.
And from deep within, almost as an outline of the entire scene itself, Ammon felt something appear. It was like hearing a new song. It was a feeling that emanated from the Guardians. It rang low. Quiet. Unabashedly joyous. The fear within him weakened, though no greater hope for victory arose. He placed his arm around his brother, accepting his own fate, while hoping to shield his brother from the same. If nothing else, he would be content to die together. For he had thought about life without Mikael before, and had found it devastating.
Suddenly, an explosion of rock and dead coral shot from beneath the ocean waves, ascending into the sky to join the painting of particles. The sands converged faster. Dust gathered as locusts upon the rock mounds. Everything moved as sinuous waves. As the mounds engorged, they merged as one, creating what appeared to be a floating mountain.
All eyes were fixed upon this mountain. All except those of the Guardians. They kept their heads bowed, remaining still, strengthening the peaceful hymn. The mountain glided then, placing itself above the twelve ships. Cries of anguish pulsed from the wooden beasts. Splashes appeared around the hulls as desperate souls decided to abandon ship, though it was already far too late. They were in the shadow of the mountain.
The entire world seemed to hold its breath. A distant whisper echoed about, followed by a low rumble. And then, the mountain fell apart. It separated into countless particles, all raining down as if driven by a force stronger than gravity. The particles pummeled the ships, dragging them to the ocean bottom. After what seemed like hours of splashes and stifled screams, there were no remnants of the assailants. Great waves crashed upon the shore. Mists rushed in upon the two brothers as they stared in awe.
No particles were left in the sky. Ocean waves continued to lick at the beach, tending to the wounds from the attack. The Guardians stood, then turned and walked inline back into the Temple. A few fell back to shift the sands with the same unseen power that had formed the mountain, repairing craters with sand and soil. Their garden was replanted in moments.
Before that day, Ammon and Mikael had never thought such immense power could exist in their world. It was incredible. Unbelievable. And now, perhaps… Obtainable.
He looked over at Mikael who was hysterical with excitement. “Did you know, Ammon?” Mikael asked with a high-pitched voice. “Did you know that they could do this?”
“No…” Ammon answered honestly. No I did not.
“Ammon, I want that!” Mikael continued.
“I dunno,” Ammon mumbled.
“Hey, there were small Guardians out there too,” Mikael said.  “Imagine if we both made it in! Mum and Dad would be so proud.”  He stared at his clenched fists with excitement.
That would be cool too, Ammon thought. But that’s not why I want it. I want to move mountains. To raise them up high over the heads of my enemies. To see the pause and regret in their eyes, just before justice comes raining down upon them.
The Sector Guard had done it. They had defended their home from an ominous threat. Not only that, but they had done it with ease, remaining shrouded in cloaks and composed with peaceful calm. With that power, Ammon thought, No one I love would ever get hurt. And imagine the true potential of it. The things we could accomplish. The evil we could destroy. Could anything pose challenge to such strength? We could even travel to the outside world.
It was this moment that guided Ammon for the next ten years. He used the memory to become stronger, training his mind and body every day, in order to someday conquer the Trials of the Guardians, to join their ranks and gain their power.
Ammon and Mikael were reborn that day through new purpose. They had been called upon. The brothers were going to become Guardians.